I think there are a lot of vegans for
whom it is simply convenient to pretend
that will Tuttle is a respected and
respectable voice within vegan activism
and he's not this is not respectable
I'm anise Yin this channel has been home
to a great many different debates
debates about veganism ecology animal
rights ethics and politics of veganism
but in a sense all of these debates can
be wrapped up and described as just one
big debate and that is a debate about
the question of the future of the vegan
movement itself what is the future of
the vegan movement I do not think
there's much of a point in my simply
revealing my fellow vegans and my fellow
vegan leaders leaders of public opinion
within the vegan movement reviling them
as idiots however I think it's
tremendously important to point the
finger and say this is not the future of
veganism and it's tremendously important
not just for me it's tremendously
important that a great many of us devote
the time and energy to in that sense
indicating what can and cannot be the
future of veganism I'm really not a fan
of people who just invoke the name of
science as if science had some
self-evident value or significance
especially not in politics or ethics or
what have you the same reasons that I'm
not a fan of people who just talk about
learning the lessons of history oh well
you haven't learned the lessons of
history haven't learned the lessons that
have yet nothing for something
different people are gonna draw
different lessons from the same history
and from the same war I just heard Jenk
Weger saying some amazingly stupid
self-righteous and ignorant things about
the history of Cambodia and America's
policy in Cambodia terrifying to me so
the event in which millions of people
died and today you know someone like
Jake weaker is trying to score points
off ik politically out of out of total
ignorance at a frightening ignorance and
he has no hesitation in making you know
Jake Uighur is a significant political
leader in his own way internet
personality and what-have-you and he has
no hesitation in making statements about
millions of people getting
without reading a single book without
pausing to reflect on what he really
knows and how he knows it and what he
doesn't know in that history but anyway
we can't just talk about the lessons of
history we can't just talk with the
lessons of science nevertheless this
example of this guy will Tuttle and the
the world peace diet it does raise
questions for us of scientific and
anti-scientific attitudes within
veganism in the 21st century difficult
questions to ask if evil questions for
us to answer so gonna read this and for
some of you simply by reading this aloud
will already be refutation enough you
will not really need anyone to explain
to you what's what's wrong with this
approach to veganism quote beyond this
physical level of biomechanism such as
hormone levels toxins and nutrients
there are metaphysical forces at work
that though ignored are nevertheless
operating metaphysical toxins ie
concentrated vibrations of terror grief
frustration and desperation permeating
these foods are invisible and completely
unrecognized by conventional science yet
they may be even more disturbing to us
than physical toxins because they work
on the level of feelings and
consciousness which are more essential
dimensions of ourselves than our
physical vehicle by purchasing or
ordering animal products we directly
cause misery and sow seeds of despair
and cruel violence it would be naive to
think these seeds simply disappear into
thin air the terror and frustration we
cause the feeling creatures whose bodies
and minds are tormented beyond imagining
are extremely powerful forces that
affect us their causative agents in many
ways when we nourish the cells with
which we think and feel with the flesh
and secretions of these terrorized
animals we absorb the vibrations of fear
disease and violence no matter how we
try to disguise this with euphemisms and
distractions physicists are beginning to
glimpse the truth that mystics and sages
have been pointing toward for centuries
it might be more entertaining for my
viewers if I were to rant endlessly
about everything wrong
in this half page of text taken from the
world peace diet but it wouldn't
accomplish much I think there are a lot
of vegans for whom it is simply
convenient to pretend that will Tuttle
is a respected and respectable voice
within vegan activism and he's not this
is not respectable and I can say that
I'm in the rare and privileged position
to say it's not just that this cannot be
respected within political science I can
also say that this is not respectable
within Buddhism I was a scholar of
Buddhism for more than 10 years I have
peer-reviewed publications to my
knowledge will Tuttle does not will
Tuttle describes himself as a Dharma
master what he says about Buddhism in
this book is deeply embarrassing to any
well-educated Buddhist what he says
about war and peace and politics is
deeply embarrassing to anyone who cares
about politics and what he says about
veganism is deeply embarrassing to any
vegan it discredits veganism it makes
all of us look like idiots if anyone
thinks that all of us have anything in
common with with will Tuttle did you
feel you see how the wind just came out
of my sails I just I just don't have it
in me to keep scoring on and laugh at
this guy I don't know it's ah but that
that last sentence I read to me if you
don't know this is a snake oil salesman
if you don't know this is garbage again
some people watching this are only 16
years old some people watching this
English is not your first language I
know I have very diverse audience but
that that final sentence fit quote
physicists are beginning to glimpse the
truth that mystics and sages have been
pointing towards for century
one of the lines that stood out to me is
this notion he says it would be naive to
think that these seeds simply disappear
into thin air
so you know this is an indirect appeal
to a Buddhist theory of karma Buddhist
or Hindu for that matter and I so
strongly feel that the exact opposite of
this is true it's not it's it's not
naive to think that atrocities happen
and then disappear into thin air it's
the opposite it's the clinging to the
notion that there's some kind of
supernatural justice in the world that
that that atrocities don't disappear
into thin air
but linger well I mean they don't appear
they linger in the air they linger in
the atmosphere there's magical
supernatural idea of karma and
retribution I remember I met a young
woman in issue that we were actually in
Thailand we were in the border area
we're pretty close to all three Thailand
Laos and Cambodia and she had been
spending time like myself in Thailand
Laos Cambodia when I asked what she did
for a living
she was a spirit medium she was she
channeled ghosts and she said that back
in America
her job was to help people who had
haunted houses because of you know
tragic events that had happened in the
house in the past there was a ghost in
the house great great way to make a
living I imagine you never never run out
of work so you know she had a view of
the world similar to what will Tuttle
here is alluding to here that you know
the ghosts of terrible things such as
slaughtering animals or slaughtering
people linger in the air they don't eat
they don't just disappear and I was able
to point out to her because I really
knew the political history of that area
exactly where we were sitting that she
had just been spending time in places
where massacres happened I said oh well
you were just in phenom penh cambodia
I'm sure you walked past the front lawn
of the you know the National Library
there you know they carried it
executions there in the old days you
know if they're on that same lawn for
the National Library it's not naive
to think that the you know the
consequences of those those massacres
disappeared they're a maybe tariff I
think there's a very childlike element
of human nature that wants to believe
that no justice and injustice must be uh
you know intrinsic to reality in the
same way that the laws of physics are
you know there must be some force like
gravity that makes some the consequences
of these terrible things you know remain
in that place in the soil in the air or
what have you
and it takes maturity and detachment to
face up to the horrifying fact that no
these atrocities happen and people get
away with them and then people do their
food shopping on the same lawn and they
eat picnics on the same lawn and life
goes on and the vast majority Pilar
quite indifferent and they don't
perceive it and was able to say this
this same young woman who did was a you
know talk to ghosts allegedly it was a
spirit medium she was on her way to VN
Chan the capital city of Laos it well
when you go to VN Shen I can tell you
exactly where the you know the French
Empire back when this is part of France
when France had conquered the control
conquered is T strong heart when France
was ruling the country you know the
sheds where people were tortured to
death to take their offices it put
literally Oh a friend of mine had an
office in there you go people are doing
paperwork people were living their lives
the same ground people used to be
executed on the same sheds people used
to be tortured in and interrogated in I
assume that same facility was also used
by the Japanese
after the French Empire well after the
Japanese displaced the French or what
have you um
it's brutal and it's horrifying but no
you can stand on ground where animals
have been killed and people have been
killed and there are no ghosts there
there is no lingering force reflecting
your sense of justice or injustice and
it is not naive to face up to the fact
that these things do as he says
disappear into thin air now the if you
feel that they shouldn't make something
happen do something about it because
justice is just a human created concept
in your own mind and human beings can go
out and make it happen
same way that beauty or a work of art is
a human created concept if if you want
to make a beautiful painting you start
with a blank canvas if you want to make
justice in this world you start with a
blank canvas also if you go to the
killing fields in Cambodia you go to any
patch of land you know when you're up
some site related to the Holocaust or
mass murder in this tree of Europe you
are in many ways looking at a blank
canvas it you know earth is just earth
air is just air and maybe we wish or we
dream that there was something lingering
in the air that reflects this this bad
karma but there isn't if you want
justice you've got to go and make it
happen if you want people to care or
ethically about the consequences of
their actions that's a concept in your
mind just as much as literature or a
story anything else a cost of your mind
and you can share that with other people
in the same way that Shakespeare is
influenced millions of people a concept
of justice and injustice can influence
millions of people but it's not gonna
happen this way this is not the future
of veganism neither politically or
spiritually nor otherwise I'm not even
saying it shouldn't be the future of
veganism I am saying with some
confidence that it can't be so remind
you the premise of this book is that
this guy has a thesis about peace about
war and peace not just about veganism
it's not a cookbook not just about the
ethics of the vegan diet but then no
he's figured out how to end war here on
planet earth pretty fundamental aspect
of human society quote if we could look
over the world we live in with the eyes
of an angel comma and intuitively
awakened being comma just just so you
know he's Buddhist and not Christian
angel God gotcha will nice save
I can tell you studied real hard to get
that title of Dharma master there in
South Korea uh ah I'm so impressed this
guy hasn't read Buddhist Canon in any
language he hasn't written Pali he
hasn't read Sanskrit he hasn't certainly
hasn't read the mess of medieval Chinese
that's preserved in you know the Korean
tradition and that almost no Baker you
can't read it without studying the
valley or the Sanskrit to compare it to
some people try just with English
anyways a joke but there yeah again my
perception of this guy is not merely
from a secular scientific atheist I am a
nihilistic a the Atheist perspective
political science is also as someone
who's a former scholar of Buddhism so he
looks even worse from that perspective
tragically anyway I continue if we could
look over the world we live in with the
eyes of an angel and see empty
vibrations rather than just physical
forms and right because that's a
Buddhist idea huh yeah good luck
it's neither Buddhist nor scientific nor
political or anything else no way
vibrations are crucial to this guy's
philosophy of peace and war you got it
you got to believe rather than just
physical forms we would see that the
wars and violence on our earth are
generated from a vast complex of venues
where deadening takes place the
countless kitchens dining rooms ins
hotels restaurants etc etc in terms of
the the fundamentals here the
fundamental claim I guess of the book as
a whole is that if the whole world
became vegan then the world would not be
troubled by such minor problems as war
and violence I've addressed very
recently just to think two videos before
this I addressed the idea that is
popular among some vegan activists that
we can sell them from oh veganism by
claiming that if the whole world became
vegan racism and sexism with disappears
this is a totally spurious laughable
ridiculous argument that speciesism is
the root of other sources of prejudice
or oppression so if we could overcome
speciesism
magically the vegan world would cease to
contain racism sexism or what have you
it's hard to say which thesis is more
absurd or laughable but in will tuiles
case at least he's honest with you that
this thesis is magical in its nature the
idea that human beings that that that
the whole planet will become less
violent that there will be world peace
if only we stop eating animals stop
eating eggs dr. animo
if the world becomes vegan this relies
on a magical view of vibrations of
metaphysical aspects of the human diet
that you've actually just gotten a
pretty good summary of you know as a
philosophy or worldview and that that
half a page and I mean I have to ask you
I know will Tuttle is invited to give
lectures at universities around the
world he's invited to give lectures at
vegan foundations he is celebrated and
uncritically lauded and applauded by
vegans around the world and I've got to
ask you why I I know there's a tendency
to just reach out to anyone who
identifies themselves as your ally or as
your proponent or as your advocate in
this world that is so hostile towards
veganism but we have got to do better
than this in a very simple sense I can
say um this has to stop ah but no Yin